---
title: Getting Started With Heroku
author: kishore
tags: Heroku
categories: Heroku
excerpt: Comprehensive guide on Heroku
status: draft
date: '2021-04-07'

---

<h2 id="what-is-heroku-">What is Heroku ?</h2>
<p>Heroku is a cloud application platform that enables developers to deploy, scale and manage applications written in any language. By default Heroku supports <code>Ruby</code>, <code>Node.js</code>, <code>Python</code>, <code>PHP</code>, <code>Java</code>, <code>Scala</code>, <code>Go</code> and <code>Clojure</code> languages.</p>
<h2 id="heroku-application">Heroku Application</h2>
<blockquote>
<p>**This definition is from Heroku documentation.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Replace this with image<br>
An application is a collection of <em>source code</em> written in one of these languages, perhaps a framework, and some <em>dependency description</em> that instructs a build system as to which additional dependencies are needed in order to build and run the application.</p>
<h2 id="what-can-you-do-with-heroku">What Can You Do With Heroku</h2>
<p>You can build an application in any language and deploy it in Heroku without changing your code and avoid the hassle of maintaining your own on-premise infrastructure.</p>
<h2 id="architecture-of-heroku">Architecture of Heroku</h2>
<p>Apps on Heroku are given a unique domain to route HTTP request to correct application container or Dyno. Dyno is one of many Dynos in a Dyno Grid which consists of several servers. Heroku’s git server handles application repository pushes from permitted users.</p>
<h2 id="few-terminologies-to-get-familiar-with">Few Terminologies To Get Familiar with</h2>
<p>Dyno<br>
Dyno Manager<br>
Dyno Configuration<br>
Dyno Type</p>
<h2 id="products-offered-by-heroku">Products Offered By Heroku</h2>
<ul>
<li>The Heroku Platform</li>
<li>Heroku Postgress</li>
<li>Heroku Redis</li>
<li>Heroku Kafka</li>
<li>Heroku Teams</li>
<li>Heroku Enterprise</li>
<li>Heroku Connect</li>
<li>Heroku Elements</li>
<li>Heroku Buttons</li>
</ul>

